README.md, before:

# TileDB-Java
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/TileDB-Inc/TileDB-Java.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/TileDB-Inc/TileDB-Java)

## Dependencies

It is required to first install or build from source TileDB.

* [Install Instructions](https://docs.tiledb.io/en/latest/installation.html)
* [TileDB Repo](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB)

To build the JNI extension you need to install:

* Cmake (>=3.2)
* JDK (>=1.8)

## Build

If TileDB is not installed in global system path, the ENV variable `TILEDB_HOME` must be defined.

To build the JNI library run:

`./gradlew assemble`

This will create the TileDB JNI library in `java-api/build/libtiledb.jnilib`.

Before running the Java code you should copy this file in your system library path. 
Alternatively you can add the build folder in your `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` ENV variable.

## Tests

To run the tests use:

`./gradlew test`

## Examples

You can run the examples located in `src/main/java/examples` using you IDE or from a terminal.

To run an example from the terminal use:

`java -cp java-api/build/libs/tiledb-jni-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar examples.TiledbArraySchema`

You may need to explitly define the java library path:

`java -Djava.library.path=".:<path/to/TileDB-Java/java-api/build>" -cp java-api/build/libs/tiledb-jni-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar examples.TiledbArraySchema`

Commit message:

Rework build to download and build native TileDB automatically.
This also renames the JNI library from libtiledb.so -> libtiledbjni.so
to avoid conflicts with the core library.

README.md, after:

# TileDB-Java
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/TileDB-Inc/TileDB-Java.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/TileDB-Inc/TileDB-Java)

## Dependencies

To build the JNI extension you need to install:

* Cmake (>=3.3)
* JDK (>=1.8)

## Build

To build the JNI library run:

`./gradlew assemble`

This will create the TileDB JNI library `java-api/build/tiledb_jni/libtiledbjni.jnilib`. This will also download and build the [TileDB](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB) library first, if it is not found installed in a global system path, in which case the native library gets placed in `java-api/build/externals/install/lib/libtiledb.dylib`.

If you wish to build with a custom version of the native TileDB library, you can define the environment variable `TILEDB_HOME`, e.g.:

`TILEDB_HOME=/path/to/TileDB/dist ./gradlew assemble`

Before running the Java code you should copy the `libtiledbjni.dylib` file into your system library path, or add the build folder in your `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` ENV variable.

## Tests

To run the tests use:

`./gradlew test`

## Examples

You can run the examples located in `src/main/java/examples` using you IDE or from a terminal.

To run an example from the terminal use:

`java -cp java-api/build/libs/java-api-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar examples.io.tiledb.libtiledb.TiledbArraySchema`

You may need to explitly define the java library path:

`java -Djava.library.path=".:<path/to/TileDB-Java/java-api/build/tiledb_jni>" -cp java-api/build/libs/java-api-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar examples.io.tiledb.libtiledb.TiledbArraySchema`
